So, we saw that the Dijkstra Algorithm
has a very high worst case complexity.
Despite the high complexity of
the algorithm, there are several
practical improvements that will
enhance the performance of the method.
One of them is
Bi-directional Dijkstra Algorithm.
The idea is very simple,
we will go forward from the source now and
backward from the target node and stop
when the two expanding frontiers meet.
We will briefly illustrate
the process without going deep into
the details of every step.
So the technique starts just
like the regular method.
The control moves from
I to F at a cost of 5.
But then, it switches and
starts from the target, and
moves backward along the edges.
So from A, it comes to D or C.
We'll chose D,
because an AD is a least weight part.
Now the forward step is performed again,
and we traverse from F to G.
We are skipping the expansion
to J because as we saw before,
it does not contribute to the path.
So the total rate of the IFG path is 15.
The backward process
then reaches G through D.
The cost of the IFG is 15.
And the cost of ADG is also 15.
We stop because a common node is reached.
We need to ensure that the weight
of the forward path and
that of the reverse path are added, and
the total combined rate is minimal.
At this point,
we can concatenate the partial paths
to construct the full shortest path,
which is IFGDA.
Now one point to remember is that
the length of the smallest weight path
can be longer than the shortest hop path.
Here the FCA path has 2 hops but
a weight of 20.
But the weight of the 3 hop path,
FGDA, is 15.
So just remember that.